README.md, before:

# PHP ConsoleTable

**ConsoleTabe** makes you easy to build console style tables. It helps you to display tabular data in terminal/shell. This is a component of [PHPLucidFrame](https://github.com/phplucidframe/phplucidframe).

License: MIT

## Composer Installation

    composer require phplucidframe/console-table

## Example 1: Bordered Table (Default)

    require 'src/LucidFrame/Console/ConsoleTable.php';

    $table = new LucidFrame\Console\ConsoleTable();
    $table
        ->addHeader('Language')
        ->addHeader('Year')
        ->addRow()
            ->addColumn('PHP')
            ->addColumn(1994)
        ->addRow()
            ->addColumn('C++')
            ->addColumn(1983)
        ->addRow()
            ->addColumn('C')
            ->addColumn(1970)
        ->display()
    ;

You can also print the table using `getTable` method such as `echo $table->getTable();`

**Output**:

    +----------+------+
    | Language | Year |
    +----------+------+
    | PHP      | 1994 |
    | C++      | 1983 |
    | C        | 1970 |
    +----------+------+

## Example 2: Bordered Table with Padding Width 2

You can also use `setHeaders()` and `addRow` with Arrays.

    require 'src/LucidFrame/Console/ConsoleTable.php';

    $table = new LucidFrame\Console\ConsoleTable();
    $table
        ->setHeaders(array('Language', 'Year'))
        ->addRow(array('PHP', 1994))
        ->addRow(array('C++', 1983))
        ->addRow(array('C', 1970))
        ->setPadding(2)
        ->display()
    ;

**Output**:

    +------------+--------+
    |  Language  |  Year  |
    +------------+--------+
    |  PHP       |  1994  |
    |  C++       |  1983  |
    |  C         |  1970  |
    +------------+--------+

## Example 3: Bordered Table with Left Margin Width 4

    require 'src/LucidFrame/Console/ConsoleTable.php';

    $table = new LucidFrame\Console\ConsoleTable();
    $table
        ->setHeaders(array('Language', 'Year'))
        ->addRow(array('PHP', 1994))
        ->addRow(array('C++', 1983))
        ->addRow(array('C', 1970))
        ->setIndent(4)
        ->display()
    ;

**Output**:

        +----------+------+
        | Language | Year |
        +----------+------+
        | PHP      | 1994 |
        | C++      | 1983 |
        | C        | 1970 |
        +----------+------+

## Example 4: Non-bordered Table with Header

    require 'src/LucidFrame/Console/ConsoleTable.php';

    $table = new LucidFrame\Console\ConsoleTable();
    $table
        ->setHeaders(array('Language', 'Year'))
        ->addRow(array('PHP', 1994))
        ->addRow(array('C++', 1983))
        ->addRow(array('C', 1970))
        ->hideBorder()
        ->display()
    ;

**Output**:

     Language  Year
    ----------------
     PHP       1994
     C++       1983
     C         1970

## Example 5: Non-bordered Table without Header

    require 'src/LucidFrame/Console/ConsoleTable.php';

    $table = new LucidFrame\Console\ConsoleTable();
    $table
        ->addRow(array('PHP', 1994))
        ->addRow(array('C++', 1983))
        ->addRow(array('C', 1970))
        ->hideBorder()
        ->display()
    ;

**Output**:

     PHP  1994
     C++  1983
     C    1970

Commit message:

Update README for license and tests

README.md, after:

# PHP ConsoleTable

**ConsoleTabe** makes you easy to build console style tables. It helps you to display tabular data in terminal/shell. This is a component of [PHPLucidFrame](https://github.com/phplucidframe/phplucidframe).

License: [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Composer Installation

    composer require phplucidframe/console-table

## Example 1: Bordered Table (Default)

    require 'src/LucidFrame/Console/ConsoleTable.php';

    $table = new LucidFrame\Console\ConsoleTable();
    $table
        ->addHeader('Language')
        ->addHeader('Year')
        ->addRow()
            ->addColumn('PHP')
            ->addColumn(1994)
        ->addRow()
            ->addColumn('C++')
            ->addColumn(1983)
        ->addRow()
            ->addColumn('C')
            ->addColumn(1970)
        ->display()
    ;

You can also print the table using `getTable` method such as `echo $table->getTable();`

**Output**:

    +----------+------+
    | Language | Year |
    +----------+------+
    | PHP      | 1994 |
    | C++      | 1983 |
    | C        | 1970 |
    +----------+------+

## Example 2: Bordered Table with Padding Width 2

You can also use `setHeaders()` and `addRow` with Arrays.

    require 'src/LucidFrame/Console/ConsoleTable.php';

    $table = new LucidFrame\Console\ConsoleTable();
    $table
        ->setHeaders(array('Language', 'Year'))
        ->addRow(array('PHP', 1994))
        ->addRow(array('C++', 1983))
        ->addRow(array('C', 1970))
        ->setPadding(2)
        ->display()
    ;

**Output**:

    +------------+--------+
    |  Language  |  Year  |
    +------------+--------+
    |  PHP       |  1994  |
    |  C++       |  1983  |
    |  C         |  1970  |
    +------------+--------+

## Example 3: Bordered Table with Left Margin Width 4

    require 'src/LucidFrame/Console/ConsoleTable.php';

    $table = new LucidFrame\Console\ConsoleTable();
    $table
        ->setHeaders(array('Language', 'Year'))
        ->addRow(array('PHP', 1994))
        ->addRow(array('C++', 1983))
        ->addRow(array('C', 1970))
        ->setIndent(4)
        ->display()
    ;

**Output**:

        +----------+------+
        | Language | Year |
        +----------+------+
        | PHP      | 1994 |
        | C++      | 1983 |
        | C        | 1970 |
        +----------+------+

## Example 4: Non-bordered Table with Header

    require 'src/LucidFrame/Console/ConsoleTable.php';

    $table = new LucidFrame\Console\ConsoleTable();
    $table
        ->setHeaders(array('Language', 'Year'))
        ->addRow(array('PHP', 1994))
        ->addRow(array('C++', 1983))
        ->addRow(array('C', 1970))
        ->hideBorder()
        ->display()
    ;

**Output**:

     Language  Year
    ----------------
     PHP       1994
     C++       1983
     C         1970

## Example 5: Non-bordered Table without Header

    require 'src/LucidFrame/Console/ConsoleTable.php';

    $table = new LucidFrame\Console\ConsoleTable();
    $table
        ->addRow(array('PHP', 1994))
        ->addRow(array('C++', 1983))
        ->addRow(array('C', 1970))
        ->hideBorder()
        ->display()
    ;

**Output**:

     PHP  1994
     C++  1983
     C    1970

## Test

If you have [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/manual/current/en/installation.html) installed in your machine, you can run test at your project root. 

    composer install
    phpunit tests

If you don't have PHPUnit, you can simply run this in your terminal.

    php example.php
